As a software engineer, chances
are you've crossed paths with
Mongo DB. At some point,
whether you're building an app
for millions of users, or
just figuring out your side
hustle, it's the most popular
non-relational database. Mongo DB is
intuitive and incredibly easy for
development teams to use. Now
with Mongo DB Atlas, you
can take advantage of Mongo,
DPS flexible document data model
as a fully automated cloud
service. Mongo DB Atlas handles
all the costly database operations
and admin tasks that you'd
rather not spend time on
like security, high availability, data
recovery monitoring, and elastic scaling.
Try Mongo DB Atlas for
free today. Visit www.mongodb.com/cloud. To
learn more that's Mongo db.com/cloud.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is Hansel minutes, specifically
an episode of Hansel minutiae
for, I talked to Richard Campbell
And we talk about nothing.
This is the one of
the very rare content, free
episodes of Hanselman. It's how
are you, sir? Why did
they like him? If they're
so content free? I don't,
I just encourage people to
lower their expectations. As we
originally started doing handsome minutia
when we would call each
other when cool stuff happened.
And then at the end
of the call, you would
say, Oh, did you push
record? We should probably just
call each other. So I
haven't talked to you in
awhile. How are you, sir?
It has been a while,
right? I mean, what have
we done? Eight, 18 or
19 of these things in
the last one was 2017.
So, well, a year we
had one last year, as
you recall, we tried to
get it working on Google
Hangouts and then my computer
blue screen. And I spent
the next six months debugging
my computer. That's basically what
happened. Build a new machine,
pretty frustrating, but what are
you going to do? So
I just got off the
phone with a very nice
gentleman who is the lead
developer on circuit Python I've
ever used circuit Python. No.
What is circuit Python? This
is a gentleman's name is
Scott Shaw Croft. And he works
at eight of fruit. And
as I hope that we
all know eight of fruit
is just wonderful and everything
that they do is magic.
Yup. Just a great playground
for stuff. And a circuit
Python is a version of
Python that makes coding IOT
devices, you know, electronics, DIY
kits. It's just, it makes
it all about right. It's
what ADA fruit is all
about. So the idea is,
you know, how do you,
how do you deal with
Arduinos right now? Right? You
have to install the Arduino
IDE, which is kind of,
kind of funky looking and
you have to, you know,
it's fakes a serial port
or it installs where do
USB drivers. And it's just
know it's a thing. What
circuit PI's on is it's
ADA, fruit's branch of micro
Python that basically is designed
to simplify experimentation on microcontrollers,
not microcomputers. This is not
Python on a raspberry PI,
cause that's all computer. Like
it's got four gigs of
Ram, right? So this is
basically writing Python to do,
you know, controlling hardware rather
than using C or C
plus plus or whatever. What's
cool about it though, is
you go and buy something
like a circuit playground express,
which is just a little
round kind of cool badge
or an eight or fruit
feather, or even the aid
of fruit, itsy bitsy, which
is a small thumb. Oh,
all their stuff is great.
Trinket, feather, Gemma, all these
things are tiny. You basically
plug them in to USB
and it shows up as
a drive, as a disc
drive. It's, you know, it's
probably not a disc drive
it's magic or whatever, but
right. And there's a file
called code dot P Y
and you edit it and
you hit save. And when
you hit save it, reboots
the board and runs the
code. Oh my goodness. Any,
any itsy-bitsy is absolutely minuscule.
I mean, it's like the
size of a quarter. No,
it's nothing like, like it
is the size. It is
probably because they needed at
least to be at least
as big as it would
be for the USB to
plug into it. Yeah. I
think it's the connectors, literally
the edge connectors take up
more space on the board
than everything else. Yes. It's
glorious. And it's like $11.
Yeah. Get a kicker. Right.
It's smaller than a feather,
but larger than a trinket.
Right. You know, it's basically
an inch and a half
long. It's really small. Now
that's not a great example.
I think the run, the
fun one and the one
that you should all rush
off and buy and tell
them, I asked you to
buy it is the circuit
playground express. And this is
really fun because it's got
10 bright, bright pixels. It's
got a motion sensor, it's
got a temperature sensor, a
light sensor, a sound sensor,
perfect little thing. And it's
just running this, this little
processor at 48 megahertz and
they're like, batteries will last
for forever. Right. And what
just, what a treat. It's
just a great little device.
And if you had an
idea and you wanted to
go and make it happen,
like a costume or a
piece of art or whatever,
you'd find this thing on.
So we're just talking to
him about some of the
work that they're doing over
there. And some of the
things that they're going to
talk about at, at PI
con just pushing the limits
of what you can do.
And it's, it's amazing to
me how they're making the
developers inner loop simpler right
back in the day. Basic
metric is how long does
it take for me to
write code and run it
on the device? Like the
faster I get around that,
the happier I am. Right.
And how many keystrokes are
you writing code and how
many keystrokes are you getting
your code ready to? Right.
Wrestling with the plumbing. Yeah.
Which is just a hassle,
you know, we've talked about
yak shaving, right? Yeah. When
are you done yet? Well,
I'm still shaving that. Yeah.
Right. I said nothing to
do with anything. No, but
yeah. Circuit Python is a
joy and I'm learning all
about it and it's becoming
my most fun way to
do stuff. And I've got
a blog post up where
I used a thing called
a PI portal P Y
portal, which has a little
tiny screen that you can
also get from Meda fruit.
This is super fun. I
can hear you searching for
it. It's got a 3.2
inch color TFT touch screen.
Wow. How much screen? My
friends, 50 bucks, 50 bucks,
little tiny thing. And then
you can go and get
like a little three D
printed case or a laser
cut case. And it could
just sit on your, you
know, like everyone's talking about
getting an Alexa, right? Yep.
So, so Amazon can listen
to your house. Right? You
can have a PI portal,
it's all open source. You
could make it a touchscreen.
You could make it a
button like a stream deck.
I went and made mine
go and talk to 'em
talk to my blood sugar
and just show me my
blood sugar, like a YouTube,
you know, subscriber and view,
counter, whatever, whatever makes you
happy. You could make it
a piece of art to
show your Twitter followers. Like
it's a dashboard. Yeah. Yeah.
Just a little bit. I'm
all about the dashboards. Did
you see that deck board
that I made? Yeah. Yeah.
I've been, I made, when
I saw your original post
on that issue, I made
notes too. That's something for
the house. Like when I
get the cycle to work
on that. Yeah. Yeah. It's
a da K board.com. You
can buy it from them
if you've got the money.
But if you have a,
a monitor line around for
a hundred bucks, they'll sell
you the raspberry PI with
the software already on it
inside of a case with
pre you know, basically they'll
save you time. You can
make this yourself, but they'll
do all the work for
you and associate it with
everything. And it just boots
up and it's done handled
very, very nice. I went
and made one with a
raspberry PI zero, and then
I just gaffer taped it
to the back of the
monitor. Yeah. Nothing that can't
be fixed with duct tape,
but for a hundred dollars,
it's hard to resist. It's
so simple. Well, and, and,
and again, it's even fun
to resist for no money.
If you have Yeah. To
deliver, they just take parts.
If you've got to pay
zero lying around. Yeah, man.
Absolutely. So what, what are
you working on? I have,
you know, I'm all in
on the book. Like I'm,
I'm really almost not gadget
thing at the moment because
it's, it is just nonstop
research and trying to get
the book done by the
end of the year, the
history of.net. You know what
interview I have Coming up
in the next couple of
weeks? Who is that? Guthrie?
Bob Muglia. Oh, wow. Where
is he? Bob ugly is
the CEO of a company
called snowflake down in San
Mateo. So I'm actually making
a trip down to the
Valley. He's graciously give me
some time. I've had a
lot of hours with mr.
Guthrie. He's very detail oriented.
And you know, the first
three hour session I did
with him, we talked about
him joining Microsoft in 1997.
And in three hours, we
got to the year 2000.
So we were still two
years away from.net. So it
is it's over a dozen
hours of interviews. Now I've
done with, with mr. Guthrie.
The other recent addition to
this was David Treadwell. Who's
at Amazon these days. And
he was the VP in
charge of.net during the development
of it, 99, 2000 2001.
So where are you anticipating
people will buy this book.
I I'm going to make
the paper book. I'm thinking
I'll Kickstarter it in the
fall so people can preorder
it. I think people want
a physical copy of the
book. That's what they tell
me. So I'll, we'll make
a physical version of the
book, but I mean, I
would read it on my
Kindle. That's just the way
I tend to read, write
and the coffee table book
for nerds. Well, if you
know, it's interesting, I've collected
a lot of the original
marketing screenshots and demo apps
and things like that. I'm
almost thinking I could make
a coffee table book, but
I just want to tell
the story of all of
the work that's gone on
over the past 20 or
so years and how, how.net
transformed itself. I mean, it
used to be a product
for windows and now it's
not. And I tell you
something that's really, that's really
emerged. I've worked on this
that you didn't have to
re you know, normally you
build a platform and then
you build tools for the
platform and then you sort
of exceed the limits of
the platform. So you have
to build a new platform.
You build new tooling.net replaced
its platform, but didn't have
to replace this tooling. I
don't know if that's ever
happened before. Well, I think
the whole idea was that
people like this language, people
like this base class library,
I always talk about the
BCL, the base class library
of.net. Doesn't get enough credit
in the sense of, you
know, Hey, you want to
do something. We probably included
that out of the box,
but at some point with
node and with other things,
you have to go and
figure out which of the
five available libraries is best
one to choose. And, and
I never, you know, back
in the nineties, when this
was in the development, that
was one of your big
debates, what language are going
to work and what platforms
are running on, what library
sets am I going to
use? And the idea that,
that, that.net was highly opinionated.
We have a library set.
This is what you should
use, took a bunch of
decision making, but it also
gave us some substantial advantages
and it allowed that platform
to get much larger. But
the fact that they spend
completely re-engineered now to be
cross platform and let's face
it more focused on the
cloud than it is focused
on any given operating system.
It's a remarkable transformation. I
just am really enjoying. Everybody's
really quite personal stories. And,
and so trying to just
build this sense of a
group of people that work
really hard to make this
happen. I mean, you and
I have had great conversations
over the years about this,
and I have many notes
from you too, because you
were part of it still
are. As I recall Know,
I tend to work on
that a little bit here
and there. It's amazing that
you're putting the work into
it. I hope that lots
of people read it and,
and you anticipate it will
be available by about what
I'm trying to get it
out by the end of
the year. So we'll make
know, I like the Kickstarter
approach, just from the point
of view of, if this
interests you, you know, put
down your money, buy a
copy in advance. Kickstarter is
a way, and we will
put a link to that.
Kickstart Is that started yet?
Now I'm going to do
it in the fall. Okay.
So I want to be
as close to publication as
possible so that I don't
frustrate people. You don't want
people to think that it's
about the money or it's
just getting it done, but
it, and getting it right.
And you know what, I'm,
it has been a, it's
a, it's been a joy
for me. Every time I
listen through, you know, I
be transcribing my own motto
whenever you, you just get
so jazzed, I get so
excited about what's been happening,
but it is, it is
a tremendous amount of work.
And so I put a
lot of other stuff aside
to try and get this
finished. I dig that you're
doing it. Thank you for
doing that. My, my pleasure,
you know, like I said,
it's literally been a delight,
but it is not, not
a small task to do
justice to Your code is
powerful. And so are you.
And when you consider the
reach of your code, it's
clear that to deliver quality
code, you must also deliver
secure code. So where can
you start? A first step
is educating yourself on basic
secure coding principles and beginning
to put these principles into
practice every day. Vera code
secure coding toolkit is your
go to resource for all
your secure coding needs. The
benefits of the toolkit include
learning best practices for secure
coding, understanding how to secure
your dev ops environments and
learning to combat the most
common software vulnerabilities, stay secure
and download this valuable asset
today at vericode.com/toolkit. That's V
R a code.com/toolkit, a subject
change. What kind of internet
do you have there at
the house? Well, you know,
up in Canada, I've always
been a beta tester for
every service provider available in
my area. I mean, it
might, my children believe that
the only reason the internet
doesn't work for them is
they haven't done their chores.
And because I've always had
multiple redundant interconnections, right. I
had, you know, symmetrical tell
at a T one early
on. And then when DSL
first came out, I had
DSL. So at this particular
moment, there are three different
internet connections coming into the
house. They are. Yeah. Okay.
And they are, wow. Well,
cause one of them is
an inbound fixed IP, so
that I'm still running servers
at home. Cause I'm in
pain. Okay. Like a business
thing I get there's a
PR business internet Is that
class internet. Yeah. So then
there's a, then I have
a separate connection to specifically
for outbound Nat traffic. And
then I have a backup
connection that allows me to
transfer load over if we
have problems or we lose
a connection, anything like that.
And is that an automatic
transfer or do I have
to pull a wire? It's
all automated. So I have
a fairly sophisticated multi-way on
router and a bunch of
rules in place. And you
know, I'm actually a network
guy. So the internet does
not go down at your
house. There's only one time
the internet went down in
my house and it was
when a truck backed into
the pole front of my
house and knocked it over.
And that is when the
daughters came downstairs. Did we
do something wrong? No. Why
is because the internet, It
doesn't work. It's like, have
you seen the big truck?
Well, I don't have three
internet. Can, I don't think
anyone has 300. Huh? Nobody
does. Nobody should. It's it's
a silly thing. And it
significantly complicates my life. What
about like a backup power
generator? Yeah. Yeah. I need
to do that. Great. So
it's its own set of
complexity, but you know, going
back to the.net, I bought
it, built this house around
the.com boom. And I was
spending a lot of time
in labs, building out websites
for folks at the Microsoft
labs in places like Palo
Alto and things like that.
So I basically built a
lab here that had its
own rack Mount with the
power backup redundant internet connection.
So we could literally benchmark
and test all that stuff
from my lab and I
could charge you for it.
And, but less than what
it would cost to go
to say a Microsoft lab.
And then once we were
comfortable, we could spec the
whole rig out in order
directly to the data center.
Right. Right. Well, there Bought
computers for this, which was
weird. There are people who
are doing infrastructure work, who
believed that you should have
those things at the house.
Like I made a, a,
a, you know, a little
raspberry pie array yup. Of
a, of a Kubernetes array.
But like just for Zelle
has like a, basically she
said that she said on,
on Twitter that con ed,
the power company in New York
came to her house because
she was pulling in a
normal on unreasonable amount of
power. Right. And they like
knocked on the door and
she was like, Oh, I'm
just running servers in here.
You know? And it's all
like hot and steamy because
she's got like a rack
in her apartment and put
air conditioning in for it.
But it's totally, really Kelly.
I did get rated as
a grow op once because,
because of my power consumption,
I've later found out it
was, it was all consuming,
a lot of power it's
that I consumed too much
power at night, which is
the sort of thing that
grow lights do. And so
that's what they sort of
caught on to is grow
lights. Cause a lot of
power consumption when you would
not normally have power consumption.
So you actually had the
city and police and fire
all show up at one
and just sort of invited
them in so they could
take a look through the
place. And then the city
guy said, you know, you
can get a work permit,
you can get a license
that basically says, you're running
a lab here and we'll
stop bothering you. I'm like,
I like that a hundred
dollars a year. I'm not
a grow op license. Huh.
Well, I know that Jess
has a, like a lot
of power cause she's running
her own, you know, server
array at home. I know
Kelly Summers has like a scale
array and she uses for
like big data at her
place. There should be some
kind of a check box.
You should be able to
like call your local utility
company and let them know
that I am not growing
here. I am. In fact,
I like it. The city
license model just says, I'm
running a lab here. It
seems to work. I'm surprised
as the crops don't buy
them. I'm running a lab
here. Yeah. That's basically what
I that's what my license
says is that I, I
run a research lab. Alright,
well, so I've had Phylos
for many years is fiber
to the, which sounds exciting.
Great fiber fiber optic for
the house. Right? Well, just
until the last year it
was, it was 20 megabits
and then it was 35
and I was 35, 35
for a very long time,
which I realize is very
privileged, but certainly it's not
the state of the art
by any means, you know,
I'm not in a rural
area. And then I finally
decided to just pay the
money for like 50 bucks
for a 100 megabit up
down. And I was very
happy with that for a
very long time. And then
over the last couple of
weeks, it's just gone up
and down and up and
down and losing IP addresses.
And I think that the
O N T the optical
network translator transfer thing that
starts with T yeah, I
don't know, the ONT go
is going out and there's
a problem. So I'm like
very frustrated, like this is,
this is important. It needs
to not fall over. You
kind of, you kind of
live off your internet connection.
Like it's not as minor
thing. I mean, I work
from home. Right. And it's
super frustrating. So Scott Hunter, who
is the King of pushing
me into things that I
don't want to do, and
then making me realize it
was a good idea after
the fact. So Scott Hunter says
to go and get Comcast
out and he says, get
Comcast. He says, UN UN,
ironically, you should use infinity.
That seems like a bad,
It seems like a step
backwards right there. They're the
giant internet service company. That's
sort of the, the worst.
Yeah. Well, so it turns
out that been a joy.
I called, I called the
fire hose people and said,
can you get me files?
Can you fix it? They
said, sure. We'll send it.
We'll send a tech out
in, in eight to nine
days. And I was like,
well, I don't have, I
don't have internet now. Yeah.
I'd been tethering my phone
to the house and the
phone was getting hot. You
know, like, of course we're
sipping through a straw here
and not like a straw,
but like one of those
little coffee, stirrer straws, that's
not really meant to be
as strong. And you know,
the family can't do their
homework and the wife's upset
and Netflix doesn't work. So
things are becoming a problem.
So I called Comcast and
today I have been sleeping
on, what's been happening in
the world of the internet.
Do you know? You can
buy a standard router now
called doc's. Was it called?
Yeah. DOCSIS this is the
specification for cable modems. When
did this happen? Like you
used to have to rent
it from them. Julie provides
them. Yeah, there are third
party ones, But you're saying
this, like you're saying this
was such a laissez Faire,
casual attitude, casual guy. You
are as Canadian. Right? I
didn't know. This was a
thing you could just buy
one and own it and
have full control of your
network entirely except for the
wire. So that was amazing.
I went and bought this
a gigabit network, a bridge,
I guess. It's not really
a router. I brought, I
brought a, I got a
modem, which is a bridge.
I didn't, I want to
manage my own DHCP. Right.
I got this modem, a
gigabit modem. And they said
they would have a person
out the next day. Wow.
Cause they're selling something new,
right? Oh yeah. But I
was just like, they just
jumped off new internet, rush
over to the house. Then
they said, well, we don't
have any cable in anywhere
near your house. No I
didn't. Then what did that,
what does that mean? Like,
well, no one ever pulled
the coaxial cable to your
house. And I said, well,
where is it? Well, it's
on the corner. And they
said, we can have a
person come and dig a
hole under your, under, under
your house and under the
sidewalk to make a, a
PVC pipe and push the
co-ax to you. And we'll
have that in a couple
of weeks. So that's not
any good. So then I
I'm like kind of sweet
talk the kid. And I
was like, Hey Regina, can
you help me out here?
So he ends up pulling
200 meters of co-ax and
laying it across the front
yard, on the ground. It's
just lying on the ground,
outside my house right now
it's temporary. Right? Shoves it
in a hole in the
side of the house, we
take it all the way
into the server room, which
is the closet under the
stairs. Right. And plug it
in. And, but once he
got it, once he, once
he accepted the fact that
there was going to be
a 200 meter wire, like
sitting across the sidewalk, breaking
some kind of rules, I'm
sure there's a dozen like
zoning rules that have been
broken. At this point. I
plugged it in. I got
gigabit. I literally 10 Xed
my internet for the same
price. I pay the exact
same. And I went to
a gigabit now instead of
a hundred megabits glorious, Suddenly
your network speeds are going
to matter right Now. I've
just hit another limitation, which
is my, my, my wifi
router. Oh, what do you
use it for wifi? Well,
I'm using an amplify am
P L I F R,
which I love and for
wireless, it's perfect. It's like
the perfect balance between a
consumer product and approach Schumer
product. I think it's just
a brilliant router. It's a
mesh network got full coverage.
As I recall her attractive
units too. They're they're gorgeous.
They look at the list.
It looks like the Tesseract,
right? It looks like the
Avengers, you know, I mean,
it's just a very lovely
little kind of opaque, white
cube, just looking scrumptious. And
what it does is it's
fine on wifi because wifi,
of course can't do gigabit,
but I've got cat six
cable pulled throughout the house
and I've got gigabit ethernet
on all my things. It
just can't handle sustain gigabit.
It gets kind of warm
and I've got 11 devices
on gigabit. So once I
start doing anything major, plus
I bought a, a modem
that is a multi, multi
homed. It'll let you do
link aggregation across multiple gigabytes.
So in some theoretical future,
Comcast will call me and
say, we can do four
gigabits now, or, you know,
it can do up to
four gigabytes, right? So it'll
max out for individual cables
and then bring it into
the house. And then I
could do link aggregation. Cause
my desktop has two gigabit
with link aggregation. So you
get the idea that this
is going to, this is
going to hurt my little
router. I'm thinking it may
be time to go from
amplify to this ubiquity. Yeah.
Ubiquity seems to be the
way a gigabit ethernet all
over, but also they're using
some of the new five
gigahertz protocols that are, you
know, gigabit speeds. So yeah,
the unify and thinking is
the thing and the frustration
I have with that. And
again, I realize that this
is a, a wonderful and
glorious problem to have. So
I recognize my luck and
privilege and this too, to
have outgrown a high end,
you know, a high end
router. I mean it's immediate
high end rider. It's like
a $200 router, but still
I've outgrown it. And now
I'm looking at this unified,
but I guess Troy hunt
has one of these and
he likes it very much.
Troy did a great series
of blog posts cause he's
got a fairly sprawling house
and you know, meshing is
important. You're trying to create
a unified wifi space. Yeah.
But it's really my only
struggle with the unifies. And
I do like them a
lot is that the on
premise UI system uses Java.
So it's like I have
to contaminate a machine to
do management or you use
their cloud product, which has
a fee attached to it.
And then you can Amar,
you can manage it from
an iPad or a phone.
Oh yes. I don't want
to pay for anything. And
I don't want to have
anything, have a dependency on
any remote thing. You know
what I mean? Like I
want my house to work
when it's unplugged. I don't
like it. If my doorbell
won't ring, unless someone's on
the other end, you know,
keeping a server up Well,
and this is purely about
configuration and monitoring stuff because
the instrumentation in the unifies.
Beautiful. Yeah. It's just that,
you know, they, they wrote
the original version for that
stuff in, in Java and
they haven't quite retired yet.
And so then they've turned
around and made the mobile
stuff, but it depends on
their cloud product. Then you
have to pay for that.
Yeah. Yeah. So that's been,
my only complaint about unify
is, you know, that you
have these two choices. So
it's like, I do have
one machine that I keep
Java on. That makes me
sad, but, but at least
gives me cause it's good.
They're good tools. Right? Like
you really do understand what's
going on then. Yeah. I
don't have any problem with
Java on the service side.
It's the Java applet that
I'm concerned about and I
have no interest in running
And you got to run
it. And so the, and
the side effect, of course
I have this one machine
that I do the monitoring
from, that has Oracle popping
up on an irregular basis.
Tell me what a new,
An Oracle doesn't like Java.
I mean really? I don't
think Oracle liked anything. They
just mean, yeah, They're just,
yeah, they're there. They're not
pleasant. That's for sure. But
the product, I mean, it's
gorgeous. It really is the
best of the best. What's
really interesting about, about unified
and it's part of the
challenge is it really is
enterprise class stuff, but there's
some reasonably priced parts that
you can use in your
home. You just gotta be
sure what you're looking at.
Like, you know, are you
start poking around at some
of their higher end products
like, Ooh, that's a thousand
dollars. I'm not spending a
thousand dollars on a device
for my wifi in my
house, like $300. Okay. You
see, but see this, this
is the thing though. $300
is still a ton of
money. If I'm going to
something for $300, it needs
to work for years. You
know what I mean? Like
I want these things to
work for. You expect these
to be magic. They're also
Poe, which I really liked
Power over ethernet, The power
of reason, which means that
ultimately it's going back to
my server closet, my server
closets on a generator with
ups backup, which means in
and outage my wifi States
up. So help me understand
that. So power over ethernet.
I get the idea, but
I don't have anything that
uses it. I guess I
could have used power over
using it with some of
my security cameras, but what
kind of stuff do I
need to power with power
vision. Most of these devices,
at least from unified and
many others will come with
an inline Poe device. It's
just a little box that
you plug the ethernet cable
through and then that's plugged
into the wall so that
you don't have to run
power to wherever you put
the a, the access point.
I see seniors in your
closet, which is convenient right
now. Or you buy proper
rack mounted, Poe switches. Like
right now I have a
little amplify router in my
closet downstairs. And then upstairs,
I have another one that's
it's buddy it's friend. Yeah.
That's like, it's sub it's
it's secondary, right? It's the
prime, the primary secondary is
upstairs, but it also has
to be plugged into the
wall, like, and by the
wall, I mean the power.
So you're saying with Poe,
that would, that extra thing
would just go away. Yeah.
The Ethan and Jack is
now your power. And so
typically in an enterprise where
I'm putting these into suspended
ceilings, I have to put
armored power cables in which
really sock. So I'd much
rather do that with on
protected cat five cables. It
can't hurt anybody. I dig
it. I see. So, Yeah,
but the big thing for
me was because we have
a fairly big house is
because I have the generator
backup against the server closet,
not the whole house. The
fact that I had Poe
meant the wifi stayed up.
So, you know, the internet
may or may not have
stayed up depending on whatever
took out the power, but
at least the network connection,
right. That's where I need
to rethink things. Cause I,
you know, we were talking
about backups and restores on
Twitter and there's that joke
about how backups always succeed.
It's restores that fail. Right.
You know, you've got to
test it. Like how often
have you tested to see
what in your house would
go out? If the power
went out right. For most
people that is not reasonable
to go and plug a
generator into the entire house,
really. You're just trying to
keep the fridge going. And
you know, maybe the internet
and the, a couple of
important things. If your power
goes out, how does the
house decide? What's on generator
power and what's not. And
does a generator turn on
by itself, Built this house
right or not? I didn't,
I had people build this
house. And so I decided
I didn't want a 30,
a 30,000 watt generator. It's
too expensive. And it's ridiculous.
Like they're massive things. So
I got a 14 kilowatt
generator, which about half the
house. And so I have
a sub panel it's powered
by the generator. And then
it, that's where I picked
fridge freezer, heating in hot
water server closet, some lights
up and down one bathroom,
like all of the sort
of essential so that the
house is usable. So they
extended out The generator. It's
like, I've seen like the
little, like my dad has
a, like one in the
garage. That's like, I don't
know. He looks like a
lawnmower. Yeah. This is a
bit bigger. At 14. Kilowatt
is a bit bigger than
that. It's, you know, six
foot by three foot by
three foot. It's outside somewhere.
It's a beige box and
it's using gas from the
city. So I don't have
to store fuel cause its
own set of problems that
I didn't want to deal
with that. And I figured
if, if gas is out
in the city, I got
bigger problems that give you
my web server gas, like
natural gas, natural gas. Yeah.
Oh sorry. It can be
powered by the same stuff
that you're already using to
heat your water and stuff.
That's right. You don't have
to go fill it with
like Exactly. I don't have
to store fuel, which creates
its own set of problems.
If you, as soon as
you're storing fuel, you need
permits. It has to be
inspected. You need to drain
it, which means using it
on a regular basis. 14
kilowatts. Like, is that a
lot? Yeah. It's half a
house basically. It's more than
enough. Okay. Yeah. And there
are a few thousand there
they're not pennies or a
few thousand dollars, but they're
not catastrophic expensive either. And
they're, you know, a little
more reasonable to manage overall.
It needs maintenance, just like
anything does once a year,
a guy comes out, charges
me $200 and changes the
oil 3000 kilowatt hour. That's
like a huge thing. I
was like, I'm old Big
beasts, right? Yeah. And then
now you've got noise problems
and you know, you probably
can't get enough natural gas
to run that as it
was with my 14 kilowatt
one, I need high pressure
gas. So that was additional
permits. You know, all these
things creep up on you.
But the big thing for
me is where we live
up against the forest. There
are storms we have above
ground power lines, which is
stupid, but it is what
it is we're wearing, you
know, quick little is what
it's called. But you know,
we're on the edge of
a grid where often we
lose, we lose power a
couple of times a year.
And once in a while,
when there's a good storm,
we lose power for a
day or two. Oh wow.
Okay. And so a couple
of suggestions. If you're going
to do this with your
generator. One thing I did
was I wired a couple
of extra out exterior outlets
on my house to the
generator and I left extension
cords for my immediate neighbors.
Oh that's so we have
an extended outage. Like that's
your cord go plug in
your fridge. And that night
I show a good neighbor.
You're so Canadian. Yeah. It
cost me $30. But it
also means they don't complain
about it running. Cause it's
loud. It makes some noise.
It's an engine, right? Like
there's no two ways about
it. It's a motor and
it's self tests. Once a
week, I run it about
three o'clock in the afternoon,
Friday. Cause nobody seems to
mind then, right? The least
annoying time for it. It
does it's automatic. But when
we had a three day
outage, we were running the
neighbors, you know, through the
shower seriously. Cause it had
been a couple of days
and it's like, you guys
want a shower? We got
hot water. So come on
by. Oh isn't the hot,
hot thing. Need power. Depends
on the house. Some people
use electric for hot water.
Some people use gas. Right.
But the bigger thing people
worried about with their bathrooms
is they didn't have their
fans working. Cause they didn't
have electricity and you get
humidity buildup and then everything
is moly. Okay. Okay. Yeah.
You know a lot. This
is giving me a lot
to search for on the
internet and a lot to
Google for. So we've talked
about circuit Python. We've talked
about the generators. We've talked
about new internet. I've talked
about the better book, better
wifi. This is a, a
lovely random content free. And
I don't like doing content
free on the show. You
know this? No, no, no,
no. This is the absolute
conversation we had Any way
where we would have had
this conversation regardless. Yes. So,
so now you've been here
with us on another episode
of Hansel minutes with Richard Campbell.
Thanks so much for talking
to me. Always a pleasure
friend. We'll see you again
next week. .